Here is the transcript you requested:

[Joe]
Companies can say you either get vaccinated, uh, or get tested or or you know, pick your poison. You got to do something to make sure we, we do as much as we can here, right?

Yeah, we gotta do what we can to mitigate the risk but we’ve, we’ve seen that mandates don’t work.

[Rep. Mike Garcia]
Uh, there’s two fundamental things that we know about the mandates. A, they don’t work as intended and B, they’re, they’re unconstitutional and that’s being proved out with OSHA and the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals now stopping Biden’s vaccine mandate. Uh, so look, what the federal government needs to be doing right now is figuring out how to enable businesses, small businesses, large businesses, and taxpayers, uh, to get back to work and to continue to grow so they get confidence and, and reinvest in their companies. If they can’t figure out how to do that by doing things like shifting left on the Laffer curve, lowering taxes for taxpayers, then they need to just get out of the way and let the system continue to flourish and hopefully get back on its feet through natural open capitalism. Uh, the irony of, of my colleague’s statement is that people are leaving California in droves right now because of policies like this and other policies that are frankly squashing businesses. I’m glad his, his district is thriving, uh, on the back of Silicon Valley business but the rest of California, especially the blue collar workers, uh, are, are suffering. We’re seeing five and a half dollar gas right now. The federal government needs to do its job, get out of the way of this market, uh, secure our southern borders, hold China accountable, uh, start tackling our debt, pass a budget, that’s a novel idea, and actually start implementing some conservative, fiscal conservative policies here that actually will get the country back online. Uh, we, we were hitting on eight cylinders before the pandemic hit us. Uh, we were cruising, uh, doing 40 knots through the water right and then all of a sudden the ship came to a screeching halt because of the pandemic. And as just, we’re starting to accelerate again, uh, now there’s folks calling for vaccine mandates, mask mandates and these are massive anchors that are just going to cripple businesses, especially small businesses, employees.

[Joe]
Congressman, what, what, what I don’t understand about this is if we want to get the economy back up and running and we, and we’ve seen the stock market to the extent you believe it’s a barometer of anything, has come off, uh, in part because now we have this new variant. If we could get everybody vaccinated, uh, it’s not, I, I don’t want to say it’s a panacea, but it would be a lot better. And there’s nothing in the Constitution that says that you have the right to give me COVID or anything else. And so I don’t understand this, this argument about freedoms. And on the other side of it, we’re going to pay for it anyway. More than 40% of Americans are effectively insured by the government. Taxpayers are paying, Medicare, Medicaid, paying for all of this. So there’s, there’s an actual healthcare cost and then there’s an economic cost. And so, I’m not sure, I don’t understand why you wouldn’t want to advocate more people to
Well, let, let’s remember, right, the Constitution does still exist despite the headwinds that we’ve had in the last two years and the encroachments on the Constitution, it still does exist. So that we do have rights. It’s the first amendment, the tenth amendment protecting us against federal mandates. Right.
But the right, so you can’t kill my mother.
But the right, so you can’t kill my mother.
But I’m not, I’m not killing your mother.
And if she has the vaccine, those risks are mitigated. And we’re seeing that in most likely cases your, your mother will not die if she’s vaccinated. That’s the point of the vaccine. Look, if you mandate something, there’s going to be 10 to 20% of our population that will not get the vaccine because of that mandate. I’m vaccinated. I believe the vaccine works as Mr. Khanna pointed out but the reality is is that there’s a big chunk of our population that as soon as the federal government tells them to do something, they will not do it. And if we turn a blind eye and pretend like those unintended consequences don’t exist, we’ll continue to see this problem get aggravated. We need to allow people to have the choice. We need to allow people to have access. We need to make it affordable, which we have. We’ve made it accessible as we have for all.
As long, as long as there’s 20%, as long as 20% of Americans are deciding that they’re not going to get vaccinated, we’re going to continue to have new variants that are going to emerge and we’re going to be living with this in ways that I don’t think people understand or understand the cost, both the health costs, uh, and the economic ones.
The reality is we can have a hundred percent vaccination, we’ll still be in those scenarios. This is why we have to hold China accountable. This is what gain of function technology does in these viral and biological weapons. We’ve got to hold them accountable. We’ve got to figure out the source of this and not allow this to happen again. But what we can’t do is continue to allow this to cripple our entire nation, our economy. We’ve got to figure out how to mitigate the risks, get as many people vaccinated as we can, but not encroach on the Constitution. And we’ve got to stop weaponizing this virus as a weapon and a tool to erode and encroach upon our constitutional rights. This is still the United States of America. And while this president is mandating vaccines for people traveling into the country via commercial air, I’m wondering if he’s applying that same rationale to 185,000 illegal immigrants who are coming across our southern border on a monthly basis. I don’t think he is and that’s where the real risk is, Joe.
Do you believe
Hold on. One question. I’m going back to Congressman Khanna. Congressman Khanna, do you think the government has the right to, to mandate a, a jab for someone that, that is opposed to it for whatever reason?
Yes, if they give an alternative, which is testing. And that’s what people need to realize.
No, but
No, that’s, that’s not what we’re talking about. We’re talking about a mandatory jab for everyone.
Uh
I haven’t come out for that. That’s not the president’s policy. The president has not
Why not, though? You’re
I, I always call you like a member of the squad. I think you’re, I, not that there’s anything wrong with that.
Well, I like, I have respect for it. I look up to
They all do, Joe.
I just thought California, I got to defend California. California has had more economic growth than any state, more job creation. Our economic growth actually has been only behind China in terms of the jobs that have been created in our state.
We deserve, we deserve to be twice as, we deserve twice as much as we’ve experienced. Uh, we, we could be so much better if we just allowed the free market to work and, and incentivized small businesses and taxpayers to stay in California. It would be a glorious state.
Or we just all said that we ought to get vaccinated and wear masks. That’s why President Biden got elected. And he accepted the nomination saying, “Let’s wear masks.” I mean, simple things.
Congressman, masks

